README.md, before:

# BigQuery Optimization via Anti-Pattern Recognition

This utility scans a BigQuery SQL in search for several possible anti-patterns. 
Anti-patterns are specific SQL syntaxes that in some cases might cause 
performance impact.

We recommend using this tool to scan the top 10% slot consuming jobs of your 
workload. Addressing these anti-patterns in most cases will provide performance 
significant benefits. 

Example of tool input and output :

Input:
```
SELECT 
    * 
FROM 
    `project.dataset.table1`
```

Output:
```
All columns on table: project.dataset.table1 are being selected. Please be sure that all columns are needed
```


# Quick Start

To run the tool use the [cloud shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/launching-cloud-shell#launch_from_the) terminal. It has all the 
pre-requisites.

Build utility
```
# in cloud shell terminal
git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/bigquery-antipattern-recognition.git
cd bigquery-antipattern-recognition
mvn clean package jib:dockerBuild -DskipTests
```

Run tool for simple inline query
```
# in cloud shell terminal
docker run \
  -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
  --query "SELECT * FROM \`project.dataset.table1\`" 
```

In the BigQuery console, run the DDL bellow to create th output table 
```SQL
-- in BQ console 
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE <my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table (
  job_id STRING,
  user_email STRING,
  query STRING,
  recommendation ARRAY<STRUCT<name STRING, description STRING>>,
  slot_hours FLOAT64,
  optimized_sql STRING,
  process_timestamp TIMESTAMP
);
```

To read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA and write to the output table, run the following
in the command line:
```
# in cloud shell terminal
gcloud auth login

docker run \
    -v ~/.config:/root/.config \
    -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
    --read_from_info_schema \
    --info_schema_region us \
    --read_from_info_schema_days 1 \
    --processing_project_id <my-project> \
    --output_table "<my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table" \
    --info_schema_top_n_percentage_of_jobs 0.1  

```

Read output in BigQuery Console
```SQL
-- in BQ console
SELECT
  job_id, user_email, query, 
  recommendation, slot_hours
FROM 
  `<my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table`
ORDER BY
  process_timestamp DESC 
LIMIT 10000;
```

### Other input / output options
* [local file -> terminal](./EXAMPLES.md#local-file---terminal)
* [local file -> csv](./EXAMPLES.md#local-folder---local-csv)
* [csv -> csv](./EXAMPLES.md#local-csv---local-csv)
* [bq -> bq](./EXAMPLES.md#bq-table---bq-table)


# Rewrite Using AI (beta)
This tool has an experimental feature that will output the rewritten query.\
This functionality is activated using the `--rewrite_sql` flag.\
(This feature is available in all outputs: logs, files, BigQuery table).

**Prerequisite**: enable [Vertex AI API](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/vertex-ai)

Input
```
docker run \
    -v ~/.config:/root/.config \
    -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
    --query "select col1 from table1 where col2 like '%abc%' and col3=1" \
    --rewrite_sql \
    --processing_project_id <my-project>
```

Output
```
--------------------------------------------------
Recommendations for query: query provided by cli:
* WhereOrder: LIKE filter in line 1 precedes a more selective filter.
* Optimized query:
select col1 from table1 where col3=1 and col2 like '%abc%'
--------------------------------------------------
```


# Deploy to Cloud Run Jobs
Deploying the anti-pattern recognition tool to a [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run?hl=en) job provides an easy mechanism to periodically scan INFORMATION_SCHEMA for occurrences of anti-patterns in top slot consuming queries.

Refer to this [step-by-step](./CR_DEPLOY.md) on how to deploy this tool using Cloud Run.

# Dataform and DBT
See the [examples page](./EXAMPLES.md#dataform-and-dbt-query-extraction) for information on extracting SQL from Dataform and DBT

# Flags and arguments
## Specify Input
### To read inline query
`--query="SELECT ... FROM ..."`
<ul>
To parse SQL string provided via CLI.
</ul>

### To read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA
`--read_from_info_schema`
<ul>
To read input queries from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS.
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_days n`
<ul>
Specifies how many days of INFORMATION_SCHEMA to read <br> 
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to 1.
</ul>

`--info_schema_region us`
<ul>
Region from which to read information schema  
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_start_time "start-timestamp"` <br>
`--read_from_info_schema_end_time "end-timestamp"`
<ul>
Alternative to `read_from_info_schema_days` option,<br>
to specify start and end date or timestamp of INFORMATION_SCHEMA to read.<br>
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to `--read_from_info_schema_days` option.
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_timeout_in_secs n`
<ul>
Specifies timeout, in secs, to query INFORMATION SCHEMA<br>
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to 60.
</ul>

``--info_schema_table_name "\`<my-project>.region-us\`.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS" \``
<ul>
Specifies what variant of INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS to read from.
</ul>

`--info_schema_top_n_percentage_of_jobs n`
<ul>
Number between 0 and 1. Uses to specify what fraction of top slot consuming jobs
the tool should consider, e.g. if equal to 0.1 only top 10% slot consuming jobs 
will be checked por anti patterns.
</ul>

### To read from a BigQuery Table
`--input_bq_table project_id.dataset_id.table_name`
<ul>
Specifies a BigQuery table as input, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns must be "id (String), query (String)"
</ul>

### To read from a files
`--input_file_path /path/to/file.sql`
<ul>
Specifies path to file with SQL string to be parsed. Can be local file or GCS file.
</ul>

`--input_folder_path /path/to/folder/with/sql/files`
<ul>
Specifies path to folder with SQL files to be parsed. Will parse all .sql in directory.<br>
Can be a local path or a GCS path
</ul>

`--input_csv_file_path /path/to/input/file.csv`
<ul>
Specifies a CSV file as input, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns must be ""id,query"
</ul>


## Specify output
`--output_file_path /path/to/output/file.csv`
<ul>
Specifies a CSV file as output, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns are "id,recommendation"
</ul>

`--output_table "my-project.dataset.antipattern_output_table" `
<ul>
Specifies table to which write results to. Assumes that the table already exits.
</ul>

## Specify compute project
`--processing_project_id <my-processing-project>`
<ul>
Specifies what project provides the compute used to read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA <br> 
and/or to write to output table (i.e. project where BQ jobs will execute) <br>
Needed if the input is INFORMATION_SCHEMA or if the output is a BQ table. <br>
Needed if using sql rewrite 
</ul>


## Using AI for rewrite
`--rewrite_sql` 
<ul>
If used a rewritted SQL will be provided. The rewrite will be performed using an LLM.<br>
This is an experimental feature. Requires processing_project_id to be specified.
</ul>

# Anti patterns
## Anti Pattern 1: Selecting all columns
Example:
```
SELECT 
    * 
FROM 
    `project.dataset.table1`
```

Output:
```
All columns on table: project.dataset.table1 are being selected. Please be sure that all columns are needed
```

## Anti Pattern 2: SEMI-JOIN without aggregation
Example:
```
SELECT 
   t1.col1 
FROM 
   `project.dataset.table1` t1 
WHERE 
    t1.col2 not in (select col2 from `project.dataset.table2`);
```

Output:
```
You are using an IN filter with a subquery without a DISTINCT on the following columns: project.dataset.table1.col2
```

## Anti Pattern 3: Multiple CTEs referenced more than twice
Example:
```
WITH
  a AS (
  SELECT col1,col2 FROM test WHERE col1='abc' 
  ),
  b AS ( 
    SELECT col2 FROM a 
  ),
  c AS (
  SELECT col1 FROM a 
  )
SELECT
  b.col2,
  c.col1
FROM
  b,c;
```

Output:
```
CTE with multiple references: alias a defined at line 2 is referenced 2 times
```

## Anti Pattern 4: Using ORDER BY without LIMIT
Example:
```
SELECT
  t.dim1,
  t.dim2,
  t.metric1
FROM
  `dataset.table` t
ORDER BY
  t.metric1 DESC;
```

Output:
```
ORDER BY clause without LIMIT at line 8.
```

## Anti Pattern 5: Using REGEXP_CONTAINS when LIKE is an option
Example:
```
SELECT
  dim1
FROM
  `dataset.table`
WHERE
  REGEXP_CONTAINS(dim1, ‘.*test.*’)
```

Output:
```
REGEXP_CONTAINS at line 6. Prefer LIKE when the full power of regex is not needed (e.g. wildcard matching).";
```



## Anti Pattern 6: Using an analytic functions to determine latest record
Example:
```
SELECT
  taxi_id, trip_seconds, fare
FROM
  (
  SELECT
    taxi_id, trip_seconds, fare,
    row_number() over(partition by taxi_id order by fare desc) rn
  FROM
    `bigquery-public-data.chicago_taxi_trips.taxi_trips`
)
WHERE
  rn = 1;
```

Output:
```
LatestRecordWithAnalyticFun: Seems like you might be using analytical function row_number in line 7 to filter the latest record in line 12.
```

## Anti Pattern 7: Convert Dynamic Predicates into Static
Example:
```
SELECT
 *
FROM 
  comments c
JOIN 
  users u ON c.user_id = u.id
WHERE 
  u.id IN (
    SELECT id 
    FROM users
    WHERE location LIKE '%New York'
    GROUP BY id
    ORDER BY SUM(up_votes) DESC
    LIMIT 10
  )
;
```

Output:
```
Dynamic Predicate: Using subquery in filter at line 10. Converting this dynamic predicate to static might provide better performance.
```


## Anti Pattern 8: Where order, apply most selective expression first
Example:
```
SELECT 
  repo_name, 
  id,
  ref
FROM 
  `bigquery-public-data.github_repos.files` 
WHERE
  ref like '%master%'
  and repo_name = 'cdnjs/cdnjs'
;
```

Output:
```
WhereOrder: LIKE filter in line 8 precedes a more selective filter.
```

## Anti Pattern 9: Join Order 
As a [best practice](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/best-practices-performance-compute#optimize_your_join_patterns)
the table with the largest number of rows should be placed first in a JOIN. 

This anti-pattern checks the join order based on the number of rows of each 
table. To do so this tool must fetch table metadata, for which the `advanced_analysis`
flag must be used.

Details can be found [here](./EXAMPLES.md#run-using-advanced-analysis).

Example:
```
SELECT  
  t1.station_id,
  COUNT(1) num_trips_started
FROM
  `bigquery-public-data.austin_bikeshare.bikeshare_stations` t1
JOIN
  `bigquery-public-data.austin_bikeshare.bikeshare_trips` t2 ON t1.station_id = t2.start_station_id
GROUP BY
  t1.station_id
;
```

Output:
```
JoinOrder: JOIN on tables: [bikeshare_stations, bikeshare_trips] might perform 
better if tables where joined in the following order: 
[bikeshare_trips, bikeshare_stations]
```

# Disclaimer
This is not an officially supported Google product.

Commit message:

adding argument to specify information schema project

README.md, after:

# BigQuery Optimization via Anti-Pattern Recognition

This utility scans a BigQuery SQL in search for several possible anti-patterns. 
Anti-patterns are specific SQL syntaxes that in some cases might cause 
performance impact.

We recommend using this tool to scan the top 10% slot consuming jobs of your 
workload. Addressing these anti-patterns in most cases will provide performance 
significant benefits. 

Example of tool input and output :

Input:
```
SELECT 
    * 
FROM 
    `project.dataset.table1`
```

Output:
```
All columns on table: project.dataset.table1 are being selected. Please be sure that all columns are needed
```


# Quick Start

To run the tool use the [cloud shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/docs/launching-cloud-shell#launch_from_the) terminal. It has all the 
pre-requisites.

Build utility
```
# in cloud shell terminal
git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/bigquery-antipattern-recognition.git
cd bigquery-antipattern-recognition
mvn clean package jib:dockerBuild -DskipTests
```

Run tool for simple inline query
```
# in cloud shell terminal
docker run \
  -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
  --query "SELECT * FROM \`project.dataset.table1\`" 
```

In the BigQuery console, run the DDL bellow to create th output table 
```SQL
-- in BQ console 
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE <my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table (
  job_id STRING,
  user_email STRING,
  query STRING,
  recommendation ARRAY<STRUCT<name STRING, description STRING>>,
  slot_hours FLOAT64,
  optimized_sql STRING,
  process_timestamp TIMESTAMP
);
```

To read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA and write to the output table, run the following
in the command line:
```
# in cloud shell terminal
gcloud auth login

docker run \
    -v ~/.config:/root/.config \
    -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
    --read_from_info_schema \
    --info_schema_project <project-name-with-info-schema-to-be-read> \
    --info_schema_region us \
    --read_from_info_schema_days 1 \
    --processing_project_id <my-processing-project> \
    --output_table "<my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table" \
    --info_schema_top_n_percentage_of_jobs 0.1  

```

Read output in BigQuery Console
```SQL
-- in BQ console
SELECT
  job_id, user_email, query, 
  recommendation, slot_hours
FROM 
  `<my-project>.<my-dataset>.antipattern_output_table`
ORDER BY
  process_timestamp DESC 
LIMIT 10000;
```

### Other input / output options
* [local file -> terminal](./EXAMPLES.md#local-file---terminal)
* [local file -> csv](./EXAMPLES.md#local-folder---local-csv)
* [csv -> csv](./EXAMPLES.md#local-csv---local-csv)
* [bq -> bq](./EXAMPLES.md#bq-table---bq-table)


# Rewrite Using AI (beta)
This tool has an experimental feature that will output the rewritten query.\
This functionality is activated using the `--rewrite_sql` flag.\
(This feature is available in all outputs: logs, files, BigQuery table).

**Prerequisite**: enable [Vertex AI API](https://pantheon.corp.google.com/vertex-ai)

Input
```
docker run \
    -v ~/.config:/root/.config \
    -i bigquery-antipattern-recognition \
    --query "select col1 from table1 where col2 like '%abc%' and col3=1" \
    --rewrite_sql \
    --processing_project_id <my-project>
```

Output
```
--------------------------------------------------
Recommendations for query: query provided by cli:
* WhereOrder: LIKE filter in line 1 precedes a more selective filter.
* Optimized query:
select col1 from table1 where col3=1 and col2 like '%abc%'
--------------------------------------------------
```


# Deploy to Cloud Run Jobs
Deploying the anti-pattern recognition tool to a [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run?hl=en) job provides an easy mechanism to periodically scan INFORMATION_SCHEMA for occurrences of anti-patterns in top slot consuming queries.

Refer to this [step-by-step](./CR_DEPLOY.md) on how to deploy this tool using Cloud Run.

# Dataform and DBT
See the [examples page](./EXAMPLES.md#dataform-and-dbt-query-extraction) for information on extracting SQL from Dataform and DBT

# Flags and arguments
## Specify Input
### To read inline query
`--query="SELECT ... FROM ..."`
<ul>
To parse SQL string provided via CLI.
</ul>

### To read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA
`--read_from_info_schema`
<ul>
To read input queries from INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS.
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_days n`
<ul>
Specifies how many days of INFORMATION_SCHEMA to read <br> 
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to 1.
</ul>


`--info_schema_project <project-name>`
<ul>
Name of the project for which information schema will be read. <br>
This is the project with the queries that you want to optimize.
</ul>

`--info_schema_region us`
<ul>
Region from which to read information schema  
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_start_time "start-timestamp"` <br>
`--read_from_info_schema_end_time "end-timestamp"`
<ul>
Alternative to `read_from_info_schema_days` option,<br>
to specify start and end date or timestamp of INFORMATION_SCHEMA to read.<br>
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to `--read_from_info_schema_days` option.
</ul>

`--read_from_info_schema_timeout_in_secs n`
<ul>
Specifies timeout, in secs, to query INFORMATION SCHEMA<br>
Must be set along with `--read_from_info_schema`. <br>
Defaults to 60.
</ul>

``--info_schema_table_name "\`<my-project>.region-us\`.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS" \``
<ul>
Specifies what variant of INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS to read from.
</ul>

`--info_schema_top_n_percentage_of_jobs n`
<ul>
Number between 0 and 1. Uses to specify what fraction of top slot consuming jobs
the tool should consider, e.g. if equal to 0.1 only top 10% slot consuming jobs 
will be checked por anti patterns.
</ul>

### To read from a BigQuery Table
`--input_bq_table project_id.dataset_id.table_name`
<ul>
Specifies a BigQuery table as input, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns must be "id (String), query (String)"
</ul>

### To read from a files
`--input_file_path /path/to/file.sql`
<ul>
Specifies path to file with SQL string to be parsed. Can be local file or GCS file.
</ul>

`--input_folder_path /path/to/folder/with/sql/files`
<ul>
Specifies path to folder with SQL files to be parsed. Will parse all .sql in directory.<br>
Can be a local path or a GCS path
</ul>

`--input_csv_file_path /path/to/input/file.csv`
<ul>
Specifies a CSV file as input, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns must be ""id,query"
</ul>


## Specify output
`--output_file_path /path/to/output/file.csv`
<ul>
Specifies a CSV file as output, each row is a SQL string to be parsed.<br>
Columns are "id,recommendation"
</ul>

`--output_table "my-project.dataset.antipattern_output_table" `
<ul>
Specifies table to which write results to. Assumes that the table already exits.
</ul>

## Specify compute project
`--processing_project_id <my-processing-project>`
<ul>
Specifies what project provides the compute used to read from INFORMATION_SCHEMA <br> 
and/or to write to output table (i.e. project where BQ jobs will execute) <br>
Needed if the input is INFORMATION_SCHEMA or if the output is a BQ table. <br>
Needed if using sql rewrite. 
</ul>


## Using AI for rewrite
`--rewrite_sql` 
<ul>
If used a rewritted SQL will be provided. The rewrite will be performed using an LLM.<br>
This is an experimental feature. Requires processing_project_id to be specified.
</ul>

# Anti patterns
## Anti Pattern 1: Selecting all columns
Example:
```
SELECT 
    * 
FROM 
    `project.dataset.table1`
```

Output:
```
All columns on table: project.dataset.table1 are being selected. Please be sure that all columns are needed
```

## Anti Pattern 2: SEMI-JOIN without aggregation
Example:
```
SELECT 
   t1.col1 
FROM 
   `project.dataset.table1` t1 
WHERE 
    t1.col2 not in (select col2 from `project.dataset.table2`);
```

Output:
```
You are using an IN filter with a subquery without a DISTINCT on the following columns: project.dataset.table1.col2
```

## Anti Pattern 3: Multiple CTEs referenced more than twice
Example:
```
WITH
  a AS (
  SELECT col1,col2 FROM test WHERE col1='abc' 
  ),
  b AS ( 
    SELECT col2 FROM a 
  ),
  c AS (
  SELECT col1 FROM a 
  )
SELECT
  b.col2,
  c.col1
FROM
  b,c;
```

Output:
```
CTE with multiple references: alias a defined at line 2 is referenced 2 times
```

## Anti Pattern 4: Using ORDER BY without LIMIT
Example:
```
SELECT
  t.dim1,
  t.dim2,
  t.metric1
FROM
  `dataset.table` t
ORDER BY
  t.metric1 DESC;
```

Output:
```
ORDER BY clause without LIMIT at line 8.
```

## Anti Pattern 5: Using REGEXP_CONTAINS when LIKE is an option
Example:
```
SELECT
  dim1
FROM
  `dataset.table`
WHERE
  REGEXP_CONTAINS(dim1, ‘.*test.*’)
```

Output:
```
REGEXP_CONTAINS at line 6. Prefer LIKE when the full power of regex is not needed (e.g. wildcard matching).";
```



## Anti Pattern 6: Using an analytic functions to determine latest record
Example:
```
SELECT
  taxi_id, trip_seconds, fare
FROM
  (
  SELECT
    taxi_id, trip_seconds, fare,
    row_number() over(partition by taxi_id order by fare desc) rn
  FROM
    `bigquery-public-data.chicago_taxi_trips.taxi_trips`
)
WHERE
  rn = 1;
```

Output:
```
LatestRecordWithAnalyticFun: Seems like you might be using analytical function row_number in line 7 to filter the latest record in line 12.
```

## Anti Pattern 7: Convert Dynamic Predicates into Static
Example:
```
SELECT
 *
FROM 
  comments c
JOIN 
  users u ON c.user_id = u.id
WHERE 
  u.id IN (
    SELECT id 
    FROM users
    WHERE location LIKE '%New York'
    GROUP BY id
    ORDER BY SUM(up_votes) DESC
    LIMIT 10
  )
;
```

Output:
```
Dynamic Predicate: Using subquery in filter at line 10. Converting this dynamic predicate to static might provide better performance.
```


## Anti Pattern 8: Where order, apply most selective expression first
Example:
```
SELECT 
  repo_name, 
  id,
  ref
FROM 
  `bigquery-public-data.github_repos.files` 
WHERE
  ref like '%master%'
  and repo_name = 'cdnjs/cdnjs'
;
```

Output:
```
WhereOrder: LIKE filter in line 8 precedes a more selective filter.
```

## Anti Pattern 9: Join Order 
As a [best practice](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/best-practices-performance-compute#optimize_your_join_patterns)
the table with the largest number of rows should be placed first in a JOIN. 

This anti-pattern checks the join order based on the number of rows of each 
table. To do so this tool must fetch table metadata, for which the `advanced_analysis`
flag must be used.

Details can be found [here](./EXAMPLES.md#run-using-advanced-analysis).

Example:
```
SELECT  
  t1.station_id,
  COUNT(1) num_trips_started
FROM
  `bigquery-public-data.austin_bikeshare.bikeshare_stations` t1
JOIN
  `bigquery-public-data.austin_bikeshare.bikeshare_trips` t2 ON t1.station_id = t2.start_station_id
GROUP BY
  t1.station_id
;
```

Output:
```
JoinOrder: JOIN on tables: [bikeshare_stations, bikeshare_trips] might perform 
better if tables where joined in the following order: 
[bikeshare_trips, bikeshare_stations]
```

# Disclaimer
This is not an officially supported Google product.
